Let's talk about the history of data streaming.
As we described in the waterfall scenario,
the water we use for our survival comes from
reservoirs and streams that deliver the water to us.
The foundation for all streaming technology lies in the ability
to transmit electronic messages from one system to another.
In 1964, the IBM system 360 was created,
including the BTAM and QTAM frameworks,
which are basic and Queued telecommunications access methods.
In 1971, IBM offered TCAM,
telecommunications access method, which included more advanced message routing.
In 1992, IBM announced the MQ series available off the mainframe.
In 1998, Sun Micro-systems published the Java Message Service specification.
In 1999, Andy Stanford-Clark and Arlen Nipper authored MQTT.
While the early development of messaging was concentrated around large corporations,
smaller companies began to develop
groundbreaking technology that would evolve to what we currently know as data streaming.
In 2003, Apache Nutch was created by Doug Cutting and Mike Cafarella.
Apache Nutch moved to Apache Hadoop project in 2006.
In 2007, Rabbit Technologies,
LTD developed Rabbit MQ.
In 2009, Spark was started by Matei Zaharia at UC Berkeley.
In 2011, Kafka was developed by LinkedIn.
In 2013, Spark was donated to the Apache Foundation.
In 2017, Spark 2.2 was released with Kafka streaming support.